 Jump to navigationI've been more than eagerly awaiting this moment from the first time I drove the Baleno. It was super light, flickable yet composed and, most importantly, fun to be behind the wheel of. Except that it begged for more power, for something that would make you feel like you weren't working so hard for speed.Engine:Enter the 998cc Boosterjet engine - the K10C DiTC (Direct Injection Turbo Charged). The next generation of K10 engines, this one was developed by Suzuki Japan for export markets, like the UK where it's offered as the standard engine on the Baleno. The Boosterjet produces 111bhp and 170Nm of torque in the UK spec.Given our quality of fuel, all the horses we're left with is 100bhp after a detune, while torque gets squeezed down to 150Nm. While that's a sure-fire way to dampen an enthusiast's, um, enthusiasm, we know the aftermarket tune scene for the car will definitely do well.Performance:So, can you feel the extra 18bhp versus the naturally aspirated car? Hell yes. The engine revs cleanly and eagerly all the way to the redline just above 6,000rpm, though it doesn't sound as happy to do it as some other naturally aspirated Maruti-Suzuki engines. Triple digit speeds do come up quick enough and if I had to guess, it'd be a low-10 second sprint to 100kmph from standstill. It's the same 5-speed manual as in the standard car, so shift action is a treat, while revised ratios help keep the engine in the power.Boost builds at 1,750rpm topping at 4,500rpm on paper, while out on track the motor felt strongest between 3,500rpm and 5,500rpm where peak power is made. How well that translates to feeling quick on the road remains to be seen.On the kilometre long back straight at the BIC I caught a peek of just over 170kmph on the speedo, which isn't bad at all. Getting to 160kmph was a relative breeze, with the car adding multiples of speed quickly until that point.Handling:The end of the back straight highlighted the second biggest addition on the RS - discs at the rear. With the additional stopping power at the rear, the car remains more balanced when you stomp on the pedal.While the RS wiggles a bit, it was a welcome departure from the standard car where the rear would really feel light. As before, it comes standard with ABS so braking performance on the street will keep you well within the realms of safety.The RS runs the same steering rack that I liked from the standard car but on the demanding conditions of a racetrack, it was easier to spot the flaws at the limit. These of course primarily being the lack of communication from the wheel, making it hard to pre-empt under steer. Even if the car does catch you out, it's so well balanced you know instinctively exactly what it needs to straighten itself out. Lifting off mid-corner gets the car to rotate naturally, the slight body roll not really being an issue.Maruti-Suzuki engineers claim a stiffer suspension setup than standard and a stiffened chassis, which could be making up for the 60kg heavier kerb of 950kg, apart from the engine and new brakes that is.Design & Interiors:Aesthetically, the RS does get a front splitter, side skirts and a new rear bumper to help it look the part. Disappointingly, the rims are the stock 16-inchers painted black, wearing the same 195/65 Apollo Alnac 4Gs, which while impressive for road tyres probably can't let you explore the limits of the chassis.Equipment levels are exactly the same, interiors are too. I'd have liked to have seen RS specific dials, maybe upholstery - what you get instead are RS branded floor mats. Interestingly, the ARAI claimed fuel efficiency figures are 21kmpl, just a few off the 1.2 petrol's figures.Though, we do know that low-capacity turbo petrol deliver very varied efficiency figures depending on how they're driven so we'll hold judgement on that.Verdict:The Baleno RS is essentially a Baleno Alpha petrol variant with a turbo, one less cylinder and two more disc brakes. Subtle bodywork aside, painting stock alloys black don't make them sportier. As well equipped as it is, it doesn't have strong enough differentiation for the asking price. Maybe it's just a case of expecting too much from a badge. When all the hype is removed the Baleno RS is, in fact, a more fun-to-drive car than the standard and that's what counts. What makes Cyclone Fani unique: All you need to know about deadliest cyclones in India Daily tracker: How drugs, cash, gold & booze are keeping netas busy in Lok Sabha polls E-Chunav 2019: Cast your vote in India's virtual Lok Sabha election Lok Sabha Election 2019: Your one-stop poll guide is here Exclusive: We talked about issues, BJP talked about Ramzan and Diwali, says Akhilesh Yadav Mahagathbandhan initiated in Gorakhpur, Phulpur: Akhilesh Yadav Can Hooda bring back Congress in Haryana? Watch: Arvind Kejriwal slapped during a roadshow in Delhi PM Modi, Congress spar over surgical strikes Exclusive: We talked about issues, BJP talked about Ramzan and Diwali, says Akhilesh Yadav Gathbandhan is here to stay, says Akhilesh Yadav Mahagathbandhan initiated in Gorakhpur, Phulpur: Akhilesh YadavCopyright © 2019 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications TodayCopyright © 2019 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today